When I say the words holy and holiness, what comes to your mind?
Many think of words like clean and pure, but let's change the question a little.
Who comes to your mind?
Likely you think of Jehovah.
You might also picture Jesus Christ and the Holy Angels.
But do you think of imperfect humans?
Can humans be described as holy?
Yes.
We know this because humans were created in God's image.
Just as we can reflect godly qualities such as love, kindness and self-control,
we can reflect holiness.
How seriously should we take holiness?
It's no small matter.
Today the world around us is increasing in badness.
2 Timothy chapter 3 verse 13 warns that wicked men would advance from bad to worse.
Undoubtedly, before the end, Satan's efforts to promote wickedness will intensify.
So we must intensify our efforts to be holy and reject all badness.
Who do you think are Satan's primary targets?
We are.
He and the demons are like a pack of hungry lions looking to devour us.
Being a publisher of the good news is a privilege that Satan seeks to attack.
Are you a parent with children?
Do you think Satan wants you to become unclean?
Yes.
He knows that devouring a family head could weaken an entire family.
In the congregation, Satan would love to devour you dear pioneers, ministerial servants and elders.
Are you in the circuit work?
A missionary?
A Bethelite?
What a sacred privilege.
But remember, it also means that we have a big target on our back.
Satan and the demons would love to penetrate our clean and holy position.
Doing so could impact the kingdom work or stumble others.
So we can't be complacent.
We must intensify our efforts to reject all badness.
Thus, holiness is a vital topic.
To that end, the theme for this month's program is perfecting holiness in God's fear.
It's based on 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 1.
To begin, we need to better understand the source of holiness, Jehovah God.
As we read the Bible, we see that holiness is an important quality that Jehovah wants us to know about Him.
The Bible contains many verses that associate God's name with the words holy and holiness.
Please open your copy of the Bible to one example at Isaiah chapter 6.
We'll start at Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 1.
Now imagine that you are the prophet Isaiah who received a divine vision.
What would you have seen and heard?
Let's read verses 1 to 3.
In the year that King Isaiah died, I saw Jehovah sitting on a lofty and elevated throne.
And the skirts of his robe filled the temple.
Seraphs were standing above him. Each had six wings.
Each covered his face with two and covered his feet with two.
And each of them would fly about with two.
And one called to the other, holy, holy, holy is Jehovah of armies.
The whole earth is filled with his glory.
Isaiah was likely filled with awe.
Verse 2 indicates that he saw seraphs, spirit creatures, evidently a very high rank.
What do we learn from their song?
They're repeating the word holy three times.
Teachers us that Jehovah is holy to the superlative degree.
No one else is as holy as he is.
But what exactly is holiness?
What does it mean to be holy?
Let's dig deeper.
We can do so with a helpful tool found in the revised New World translation.
If you don't have the revised edition in your language,
we'll share the key point in just a moment.
In the revised printed edition, the glossary is located several pages after revelation
and immediately after the Bible words index.
The topics are arranged alphabetically.
So please find the entry for holy holiness.
If you're using JW Library, here are two ways to get to the glossary.
In the app, go to the Bible, then at the top of the screen,
tap on the magnifying glass to start a search, then type in the word holy.
Soon you'll see an entry from the glossary, tap on that.
Another way is to go to publications and then books.
From there you can open the glossary and find the entry for holy.
Ready? Let's read it.
A quality possessed inherently by Jehovah,
a state of absolute moral purity and sacredness.
When referring to humans, animals, things, places, time periods and activities,
the original Hebrew word conveys the thought of separateness,
exclusiveness or sanctification to the Holy God,
a state of being set aside for Jehovah's service.
In the Christian Greek scriptures, the words rendered holy and holiness,
likewise denote separation to God.
The words are also used to refer to purity in one's personal conduct.
What did we learn?
First, we're reminded that Jehovah is pure in the absolute sense.
But what does it mean that holiness is a quality that he possesses inherently?
Let's illustrate.
Consider the words human and imperfect.
Today those two words naturally go together.
Imperfection is within all of us and affects everything we do.
Now consider another set of words that consistently go together.
Jehovah and Holy.
Holiness permeates Jehovah.
He doesn't have to perfect holiness like we do.
Everything about him is inherently clean, pure and upright.
What a contrast Jehovah's holiness is to the world around us.
Today virtually everything about human society alienated from God is polluted in some way,
either by inherited imperfection or by outright wickedness.
But Jehovah is completely removed from sinfulness.
He'll never be polluted by badness.
He'll never turn corrupt, immoral or abusive.
Because he's absolutely holy, he's completely reliable.
This means that Jehovah is the ideal father.
How encouraging and reassuring.
Jehovah's holiness is beautiful.
Think about the physical world.
How do you feel about beautiful things?
Are you drawn to them or repelled by them?
For example, look at these landscapes.
How do they make you feel?
Would you like to spend time here?
Can you see yourself walking here, filling your lungs with clean, fresh air?
Or how about drinking from a river of pure crystal clear water?
How we yearn to live in such conditions and we will.
But have you ever wondered what it is about these images that so appealing?
Simply put, everything is pure and clean.
On the other hand, if these same locations were filled with garbage, graffiti and smog,
would you still want to be there?
Likely not.
Pollution and filth are not attractive.
What's the point?
We're naturally drawn to beauty.
Beauty is associated with things that are clean, pure and bright.
That's how Jehovah wants us to view his holiness.
Meditating on this aspect of God's personality draws us closer to him.
And though he hates all sin, his word confirms that he doesn't hate us.
All of this stirs within us a desire to perfect holiness.
Let's now open to 2 Corinthians, chapter 7 and verse 1, our theme scripture.
Though Paul wrote this to one congregation, Jehovah preserved it for us.
It says,
Therefore, since we have these promises beloved ones,
let us cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit,
perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
The concluding part of the verse serves as the basis for our theme.
What does it mean to perfect something?
According to one dictionary,
to perfect means to bring to a state of supreme excellence,
to rid of faults, to improve or refine.
As an example, perhaps you enjoy a hobby like drawing, taking photographs,
or playing an instrument.
If an expert in that field told you that you should perfect your talent,
what would he mean?
First, he's confirming that you have some experience already.
Second, he's telling you,
you have what it takes to be even better in the future.
I can see your potential.
Of course, perfecting a hobby takes time.
The same is true of our holiness.
The book, Word Pictures in the New Testament,
notes that the word perfecting at 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 1
means not a sudden attainment of complete holiness,
but a continuous process.
So Jehovah, the expert in holiness,
and our best friend, is appealing to us.
In effect, he's saying,
I see your potential.
You have what it takes to make progress in holiness.
Keep working to perfect it.
Does such an appeal touch your heart?
We could ask ourselves,
is there an area in my life where I can refine my holiness?
For example, consider the matter of physical cleanness.
Chapter 8 of the book,
How to Remain in God's Love
Discusses the need to glorify Jehovah by keeping our body and clothing,
our home and surroundings,
and our place of worship clean.
Being physically clean benefits us,
and those around us.
More important, it honors our Holy Father.
But our personal cleaning program must go below the surface.
In our theme text,
Jehovah urges us to cleanse ourselves
of every defilement of flesh and spirit.
This involves every aspect of our lives.
For example, something we read in the Bible
or that we hear at a meeting
may warn us that our thoughts need further refinement.
Perhaps we detect a tendency toward materialism,
or we realize that our precious time is being consumed by social media,
surfing the internet, or playing video games.
In Ephesians 4, 23 and 24,
we're urged to continue to be made new
in our dominant mental attitude
and to put on the new personality.
So our challenge might be a deeply ingrained,
negative personality trait.
A sister named Christina admitted,
I often find myself looking envyously at others.
I compare what they have with what I don't have.
Well, these are just a few examples.
And these may not be our weaknesses,
but the lesson is clear.
All of us need to keep examining ourselves.
And brothers and sisters,
when we identify a personal weakness,
what should we do?
For illustration purposes,
let's use the example of Christina and her battle with envy.
A three-step program to change our dominant mental attitude
was published on page 11 of the June 2019 study edition of The Watchtower.
What's the first thing Christina should do?
Step 1. She needs to talk to Jehovah,
admitting that she recognizes the need to change.
If she prays regularly for Jehovah to put within her a new spirit,
our Holy God will help her.
Step 2. She needs to meditate,
so as to examine herself in the mirror of God's Word.
For example, she might think deeply about the fact
that love is not jealous and does not look for its own interests.
This would help Christina to hate envy.
Step 3. She needs to assess her relationships
and choose good association.
Could it be that negative gossip either in person
or online is shaping her thinking?
If so, she'd be wise to choose better association.
Yes, Jehovah's blessing upon Christina's personal efforts
will enable her to perfect holiness.
These three steps can help us do the same.
Let's now review our key points.
First, wickedness is going from bad to worse,
so we need to intensify our efforts to be holy.
Second, since Jehovah is the source of holiness,
everything about him is clean, pure, and upright.
This beautiful quality draws us to him and moves us to be holy.
Third and most important, Jehovah appeals to us
to cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit.
So may we accept Jehovah's help
and work to perfect holiness in God's fear.